doc: add release schedule and support policy (#348)
notaryproject/notaryproject.dev: content/en/docs/release.md

---
title: "Release schedule and support policy"
description: "This document describes the Notary Project release schedule and support policy"
type: docs
weight: 10
---

> Since the Notary Project v1.0.0 release, Notary Project releases are scheduled quarterly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Notary Project v1.0.0 release, subsequent Notary Project releases are scheduled quarterly.
```

Is it more accurate?

## Release versioning

The Notary Project release version is in the form of `vX.Y.Z`, where `X` is the major version, `Y` is the minor version and `Z` is the patch version, following [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html) terminology.

### Patch release

> Patch releases provide users with bug fixes and security fixes. They do not contain new features. A patch release can be done by each Notary Project repository individually every quarter in a calendar year. A patch release to fix critical issues or security issues can be done on demand. A patch release can be cancelled if there is no new fixes since the previous release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Patch releases provide users with bug fixes and security fixes. They do not contain new features. A patch release can be done by each Notary Project repository individually every quarter in a calendar year. A patch release to fix critical issues or security issues can be done on demand. ~~A patch release can be cancelled if there is no new fixes since the previous release.~~
```
The last line is not needed. It is more confusing to say "Patch release can be cancelled" then not to say anything. It is obvious that if no fixes are there, no patch release will be created. The cancelling word may imply that we may do a patch release but can redact it later.

### Minor release

> Minor releases contain new features, security and bug fixes. They are backwards compatible with respect to the API and the CLI usage. A minor release will be done every quarter in a calendar year. If a feature needs specifications changes, a corresponding release for specifications will be planned. If a feature needs documentation, documentation need to be published on [Notary Project website](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/) during a minor release. Code freeze starts one week before a minor release. Only critical bug fixes are accepted into the release codebase during this time. Features that are not mandatory and not completed in a minor release will be moved to next minor release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Minor releases contain new features, security and bug fixes. They are backwards compatible with respect to the API and the CLI usage. A minor release may be done every quarter in a calendar year. If a feature needs specifications changes, a corresponding release for specifications will be planned. If a feature needs documentation, documentation need to be published on [Notary Project website](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/) during a minor release. Code freeze starts one week before a minor release. Only critical bug fixes are accepted into the release codebase during this time. Features that are planned but incomplete before the the minor release will be moved to next minor release.
```

---
title: "Release schedule and support policy"
description: "This document describes the Notary Project release schedule and support policy"
type: docs
weight: 10
---

Since the Notary Project v1.0.0 release, Notary Project releases are scheduled quarterly.

## Release versioning

The Notary Project release version is in the form of `vX.Y.Z`, where `X` is the major version, `Y` is the minor version and `Z` is the patch version, following [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html) terminology.

> ## Patch release

Reviewer 3: The reason is that I'm confused with the TOC.

Should it be something like

- Release versioning
  - Major releases
  - Minor releases
  - Patch releases
- Release notes
- Support policy
- Upcoming releases
- Attribution

> Patch releases provide users with bug fixes and security fixes. They do not contain new features. A patch release can be done by each Notary Project repository individually every quarter in a calendar year. A patch release to fix critical issues or security issues can be done on demand. A patch release can be cancelled if there is no new fixes since the previous release.

Reviewer 4: Release has a cost associated with it and maybe 4 months is more reasonable than 3. But that's something that @notaryproject/notaryproject-org-maintainers  should weigh in on.

Reviewer: Quarter-based release cadence sounds reasonable to me since the Notary Project is still in a fast iteration period. The Kubernetes community kept a quarter-based cadence for several years and changed the release cadence from four releases a year (once a quarter) to three releases a year. Maybe we can consider a 4-month release cycle after v2.

Author: Considering we still have many backlog issues not well addressed, so I would suggest quarterly based releases.

## Major releases

Major releases contain breaking changes. Such releases should be managed carefully to minimize disruption to users. Major releases are rare but are sometimes necessary to allow Notary Project to evolve, optimize codebase, enhance security, and comply with updated standards. The target date for a major release can be chosen once beta versions and release candidates of a major release are planned.

## Release notes

Release notes can be found by reading the notes from release page of each corresponding repository. Alternately, you can read the corresponding [release blogs](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/).

## Support policy

> The Notary Project community will support "n" (current) and "n-1" `vX.Y` releases. For example, when `v1.3.0` comes out, `v1.1.x` will no longer be supported for patch releases, and we encourage users to upgrade to a supported version as soon as possible. 

Reviewer 4: @priteshbandi @shizhMSFT @toddysm  are you folks ok with this?

## Upcoming releases

| Quarter in Year | Release version                  | Code freeze | Target date |
| --------------- | -------------------------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Q4 2023         | Notary Project v1.1.0            | 11/15/2023  | 11/22/2023  |

> | Q4 2023         | Notation CLI or Libraries v1.0.1 |     N/A     | 11/15/2023  |

Reviewer 3: This row confuses me. Can you elaborate more?

Author: @shizhMSFT Would you mind reviewing it again to see whether it gets clarified.

> | Q4 2023         | Patch releases                   | 11/10/2023  | 11/15/2023  |

Reviewer 3: just a note: patch releases can be after `v1.1.0`.
